By the Divine.
For example, if I know only my head, that
is not sufficient.
If I know only my neck, that is not sufficient.
If I know only my leg, that is not sufficient.
But, the more I know about myself the more
dynamic I become: The more expansive I become.
And all the great, that existed, or all the
people who were called as great, are great
because they lived in many human beings.
I feel that warmth in the atmosphere, as you
are feeling because you know they are not
foreigners, they are your brothers and sisters.
There are so many stories in Puranas like
this that...
I will not name it, but once two brothers
met in a jungle.
But they thought that they were enemies and
they wanted to fight with each other, and
when they came too close they couldn't hit
each other.
Then they took out their arrows, the arrows
wouldn't work.
They were quite surprised at this and when
they asked each other, "Who is your mother?,"
they found out, mother was the same.
And then they realized that they were not
foreigners neither enemies but they were made
of the same fiber.
What sweetness, what beauty that knowledge
has given them, and what security of understanding
that everywhere in the whole world we have
brothers and sisters who are on their inner
being, on their divine, and how we are bound
together with that love.
When I talk of love, people think that I am
trying to make you weak people - because people
think those who love are weak.
But the most dynamic power in this world is
that of love.
Is the most aggressive power - is that of
love.
Even when we suffer, in love, it is out of
our strength that we suffer and not out of
our weakness.
For example, there was a teacher in China
who used to teach the cocks how to fight.
And the king of that place took his cocks
to that teacher and told him that you please
teach them how to fight.
After one month, when the king went to take
those cocks with him, he was surprised that
the cocks where just silent doing nothing.
And he told the teacher that, "What have you
done to my cocks?
They are not at all aggressive.
They are not doing anything.
How are they going to fight it out?
There's going to be a race.
There's going to be an exhibition of their
strength and what are we going to do about
it?"
He said, "You just take them."
He took those two cocks with him, and put
them in the arena where there were other cocks
who had come to fight.
These two cocks were very nicely standing.
All the other cocks started coaxing and torturing.
They were just standing and looking at them.
All the other cocks were surprised at their
behavior and thought that they were very powerful.
And they all fled away.
The love that I am talking about - the divine
love - makes you not only strong but dynamic.
It is the greatest luminous power that we
can think of.
Only when love is surrounded by gross, and
is lost in the gross, it looks as if it is
weak and under chains.
The time it is released, the dynamic power
of love can transcend all the evil powers
of the world.
When people get their realization, automatically
the ego drops out - to a great extent I should
say.
Because, you say that the vibrations are passing;
you don't say that you are giving them.
Because the dropping of the ego sometimes
it happens that you feel that whatever you
wanted to have you have got it, and you better
not talk about it.
When there is any opposition from anywhere,
you shun it and sit away from it.
You don't want to face the opposition of any
negative opposition - whether it is by speech
or by... even by evil methods.
We run away from that thinking, "Oh god!
How are we going to face it?"
On the contrary a person who is negative,
who has got hatred becomes tiresomely[word
not clear sounds like schizmoid] they call
it means a person who talks big.
Such a person talks...
starts talking big.
He thinks he is above everybody else, he can
befool all the world; He takes a responsibility
on himself.
He starts a big ashram or some big place where
he sits down with all his ignorance and starts
spreading his knowledge - the so called - to
people.
By his methods people get impressed and they
all go and fall at his feet.
While the realized sits at home quietly wondering,
"What are these fools doing?"
But, it is not now for the realized to sit
down and to wonder and laugh at the foolishness
of the people who are not yet realized.
Not even to take pity on them, but to come
out, come out with the sword of love to win
the whole world.
It is very, very essential.
If the creation has to be saved, then you
are not to keep mum about it.
All the wrong ideas about love, all the falsehood
about love, has to be given up.
One must know that it is the dynamic power.
And it won't allow you to sit comfortably
with yourself, enjoying the peace and the
bliss, when the rest of the world is not enjoying
that and is playing into the hands of the
evil geniuses who have come in this world
to destroy and to bring the satanic realm
on this earth.
Now the days are gone when the people had
to suffer.
Christ suffered for us.
Of course, Christ never suffered, because
He never suffered.
He never wept.
He was like those cocks, a very powerful personality.
But today is the day to brighten up your understanding
about your own strength that is within you.
Those who are gross should worry about their
insecurities and their problems and their
organizations - but not for the people who
are realized.
I have told you many a times and today he
also remarked that you should know you are
never alone when you are realized.
There have been many people who have been
realized, before even you were born, who exist,
who are anxious to help you at every moment.
In our shastras [Hindi/Sanskrit meaning scriptures]
we call them Chiranjivas [Hindi/Sanskrit meaning
eternal beings], you know them.
They are people who are Niranjanas, as he
said about Bhairava and Hanumana.
All these people exist and they are waiting
just for a call from you.
Once we went to the market
and there was a problem about something, and
I had somebody with me - a disciple - who
was also with me.
I just wanted to see what will be his reaction.
He tried to argue out with a person to tell
him about something.
So he told Me, "Mataji let us go now."
When we came out the shop, I said, "What are
you going to about it?"
He said, "I have already told Hanuman to look
after that part."
And the work was done.
It is gross, but it happens.
When they fail, you can leave it to anyone
of them and they will have to jolly well do
it.
Because, it is you who are on the stage and
not they.
They are the background people.
They are the play back.
But you must open your mouth otherwise if
they start thinking, what will people say?
They are going to help you in every way, but
how far are you standing on your security?
How far you are standing on your property,
on your understanding of yourself?
It's a great war going on.
You are not aware of it.
Some of you are.
Some of you are definitely aware of it because
they have had the experience of fighting
it out.
It's a big war on.
Now specially when ten rakshasas [meaning
demons] have taken their avataras [meaning
incarnations].
And for you to be so feeble - you are still
small children, no doubt, because you got
your realization only a few days back.
But if you want, you can grow very fast.
You can grow into big big giants.
All of you can grow.
Only thing, you have to decide that you have
to grow within.
There are so many things, that you only have
discovered, by which a person grows.
I can give you food, but you have to grow
yourself.
Wherever you see the negativity, you have
to stand up and say, "This is negativity and
nothing else.
Whether you like it or not."
In that, you love that person, you don't hate.
Only talking sweetly, is not the idea of love.
No, a mother sometimes even scolds the child.
Doesn't mean that she doesn't love.
If it is necessary, you have to tell the person
that it is negativity.
Of course, if there is a realized person he
won't mind any correction - because he wants
the correction, he knows that it has to be
corrected.
The instrument has to be corrected.
But a person who doesn't understand, you have
to force your love on that person.
You can force that love - you know that - sitting
down here.
Many people have tried putting love around
certain people who were trying to be mischievous
- and they have been able to achieve great
results.
Those people have turned back and come back.
Only by putting your hand and putting your
attention on that person and moving this hand
like this, the love encircles, then the person
comes back.
There is no doubt that there is negativity
and positivity, nothing in between these,
you must remember.
There is no compromise between the two.
Either it is light and darkness, or it is
positive and negative - definitely there are
two things that are fighting.
Only thing your will - that's the trouble
in [is?] the whole joke.
That your will is respected, your will is
throughout respected.
If you have the will to be a giant that loves,
you can be.
The other day I met a psychiatrist, and he
was catching his superego very much.
I said, "What's wrong with you?"
He said, "My childhood.
My childhood I couldn't get much love."
I said, "Now I am there.
You come in my lap.
Take the love."
He said, "I want to flow my love, Mother.
I want to open out myself, completely, without
any fear."
I said, "You just start it.
Don't worry what people are going to misunderstand.
What people are going to say.
It's nothing important what people are going
to say or anything.
For love, the satisfaction is only love, that
you love another person."
"You just flow your love," I said, "and you
will feel it will work out.
Just decide that I am going to love people.
And once you decide that, the whole heaven,
the whole power of the heaven will fall at
your feet.
You believe me in this."
If you see otherwise, I am an ordinary housewife.
Some people always say, "Mataji, how can we
be like this?"
Why not?
I am just like you.
I have the same problems as you have.
But only thing I know, that I am nothing but
embodiment of that love that is divine, and
I can't exist without it.
Every moment of My life let the love flow,
let the love flow.
Every wave of My mind conveys the love.
And
that makes you completely powerful.
If you read...
I was reading Devi Mahatmya.
In that they talk about a rakshasa who faced
primordial Mother, the divine Mother, and
he laughed at Her - "You woman!
What can you do to me?
You are a woman, what can you do to me?"
And She smiled at him and said, "All right,
come along, let us see."
And with one stroke, She cut his throat.
Very clearly that shows, that positivity can
cut the throat of negativity.
There is no hinsa [Hindi word meaning violence]
in that.
You must remember the difference between the
two.
If negativity is cut and positive brought
out, that is the greatest ahinsa [nonviolence]
you can do to someone.
You have seen what negativity does to people;
you have now known what is negativity.
You have seen how people suffer with [these?]
spirits on them.
And here, they are also anxious to be loved
your way, you will be surprised to know that,
if you really love them.
They themselves come to me and say, "Give
me salvation Mother."
They come to me only for that, sometimes with
you, that I should give them salvation.
And if I promise that they take the birth
again.
But, there are rakshasas, there are rakshasas.
As I told you the other day, the Kaliyuga
has laid a beautiful stage and a very wonderful
drama is to be played - in which Ravana has
to love Sita, as a mother; the Kansa has to
fall at the feet of Radha.
Perhaps, you do not know that Krishna wanted
to kill Kansa.
At that time, he was His uncle.
So the feeling came in Him, of His mother
- that after all he is my brother.
So He asked Radha, and Radha killed him - the
Radha who loved the whole world at that time.
She is the embodiment of love and She killed
Kansa because it was to be.
When you are playing in the hands of God then
if He wants to kill somebody, it has to be
played [not clear].
But first of all you have to be in the hands
of God completely.
It is his love only, which kills this body.
And when the songs of their strength and victory
is sung, you have seen it, all my chakras
- how they start working and vibrating because
the strength of those victorious days is still
lingering on and it is going to work through
you.
But what about your core [poor?] instrument
which is moving little slowly.
The time when love has to rule, the Satyayuga,
if it has to come it is going to be through
your efforts, now.
Before Sahaja Yoga, no efforts.
But now, all your efforts are divine.
Whatever you do, whatever sympathetic you
activate, you are getting it through parasympathetic
- you don't do anything at all.
But you can see yourself what sticks, and
watch.
You are the chosen ones, otherwise why is
it that you are the only people who got this
realization and so much you have come forward?
Some of you got it only few days back and
have gone very far.
Why?
You are the chosen ones and you have to take
it upon yourself to be the channels of that
divine love, that dynamic power, which is
going to transform the whole conception of
hatred on which all these nations and all
these differences are created.
It looks sometimes - how?
How can it be?
But now the days are gone - of Gokul.
I was thinking of it.
Of the time when Krishna used to play His
flute and He tried His Sahaja Yoga on the
Gopis and the Gopas.
Oh!
We tried and tried and tried, in different
lives.
Nothing worked.
And now it is going to click like a spark.
The chain reaction will start.
But we have to have strong machines to carry
that.
Otherwise the fuse will be off.
Only the strength that is in you is to be
felt by your attention.
That's the only thing you have to do - is
to feel your attention and give up all that
is falsehood.
All that is falsehood - you see within yourself
and you will know what is falsehood and you
just drop it [not clear].
Accept only the truth, and the truth will
give you that power to be the real instrument,
to carry this channel, that force of love.
It should not mean that you have to be egoistic
- you cannot be even if you try to.
You cannot harm anyone even if you want to
trouble.
So many of you have expressed that, "Mataji
you are giving it to every Dick, Tom and Harry."
I can't give it to Dick, Tom and Harry - it
has to be a man who has been searching, it
has to be a woman who has been searching in
their previous lives.
You should know that whatever you have got
it, you have got it in your own right.
So, a person may look like a Dick, Tom and
Harry, but he is not.
He is a great saint.
They are all saints sitting here.
It's a center and nucleus of saintliness where
the complete divine is flowing.
Only thing is, let
it flow out from you.
This power is that of God and it is not your
responsibility to worry as to whether it will
do good or bad.
Even if you think that it may do some bad
things according to the moral sciences of
this world, ultimately it is going to be all
right.
Why that Jarasandha was to be killed?
Why that Kansa was to be killed?
Why Ravana was to be killed?
Of course, killing doesn't help much that
I have realized.
Because, all those who were killed are back
again in their saddles . But still, you don't
fight those horrible people.
You just fight your self out.
You just watch yourself.
Where are you?
What are you doing?
Are you on the divine or on the gross?
Just think about it every moment, every moment
you are in meditation just think of the moment
and the dynamism of that moment.
The complete power that is feeding [?] every
moment just to go inside you.
It will flow through your Sahastrar inside
your being and completely revolve around your
whole being and transform the inside into
a complete Chaitanya Shakti, a complete divine
power.
Allow it to come in, accept it.
Accept it without any fear.
Let it get in.
Every moment, every moment keep awake.
It's a very precarious time that we are up
to.
I have only two hands you can see that very
clearly.
And though Mr. --------- says that I can do
everything, I can do everything but not to
make you do something.
Your will, will be respected throughout.
Every other thing can be looked after except
for one - that you should be a perfect machine,
a perfect channel, a perfect flute for my
lord to play that tune of love.
It is for you to clear out all your seven
holes.
It is for you to clear out your hollowness
and to be complete within yourself and He
knows his job.
He is the artist.
But you are the instruments.
And the harmonious music from so many souls
can fill the ears of these evil people and
can penetrate into their heart and put love
into them and may be that they themselves
will give up their evil ways and fall at the
feet of love.
Krishna is to be born within you today.
A five-year-old boy went to kill Kalia.
That Krishna is to born within you.
Went and sat on the Kalia's Sahastrar and
was pressing with His feet and all the people
were seeing this great drama of Krishna's
dancing on the Kalia's Sahastrara.
Krishna is to be born within your being.
When you are Krishna, you are not going to
see me.
Let us now go to the state, which is beyond
words, beyond thoughts, into the realm of
thoughtless awareness where the divine is
pouring its blessings.
These people have decided today to have a
Puja, and you know what happens to Me when
you do My Puja.
So with all those problems that will be facing
later, I would like all of you to be attentive
about the Puja and to take full advantage
of that.
With this Puja you get the Mother's protection,
to begin with.
And My Chakras, when they start moving, they
give you special powers of love and bless
all your Chakras and fill them up completely.
So I would like you, though some two people
are coming to do this, all of you to feel
that you all are doing it - and you can feel
it that way with oneness.
And the blessings of My being will flow to
you automatically.